# Quantum Minesweeper, a game to make quantum mechanics fun
Quantum Minesweeper is a variant on the classical minesweeper game which uses probabalistic measurements on a board state which is in superposition. To start, the user specifies the board size, number of boards, and number of mines. The computer creates that number of boards of that size, and randomly scatters the appropriate number of mines across each board. It then puts all the boards into a superposition state.

The user has 3 measurements with which to determine the mine locations: a collapsing measurement, an interaction free measurement, and a linear entropy measurement. First, we define the "probability of a mine being present", which for any given tile is simply the number of mines on that tile divided by the number of boards in the superposition. For example, if there were 4 boards in superposition and three of them had mines on a certain tile, the probability of a mine being present would be 0.75.

Collapsing: The collapsing measurement is akin to the standard minesweeper measurement. It finds the probability of a mine being present, and that is the probability of it triggering a mine. If it does not, the board superposition collapses to only contain boards without a mine on that tile; all other boards are removed. It then displays the average of the number of adjacent mines across all remaining boards.

Interaction Free: The interaction free is a safer, but less informative version of the collapsing measurement. It calculates the probability of a mine being present, divides it by 4, and uses that as the probability of detonation. With the same probability, it will detect the mine, but not trigger it. In that case, the superposition collapses to only include boards with a mine on that tile; all others vanish. With the remaining probability, the interaction free measurement gives no information - this is the most likely outcome, so it is not particularly helpful.

Entropy: The entropy measurement is a measurement of the uncertainty in board state. It calculates the probability of there being a mine as well as there not being a mine (1-the probability of there being a mine), squares both probabilities, and subtracts their sum from 1. Practically, this means that the lower the entropy, there more boards are in the same state, although you do not know which state. If the entropy is 0, then all boards are in the same state, whereas if it is 0.5, the boards are split evenly between states.

That's it! The game is difficult and requires a bit of luck, so start with an easier board, and always keep an eye on the decoherence timer!
